---
title: "Bliki structure"
date: 2020-05-17
tags: ["bliki"]
---

In the Bliki section you can see the sequence of links. What is it and why? As I said, 
I use Bliki ideas (blog + wiki)
([https://www.martinfowler.com/bliki/WhatIsaBliki.html](https://www.martinfowler.com/bliki/WhatIsaBliki.html)) 
in order to capture any knowledge, ideas and considerations in the usual Wikipedia format, 
but this capture will not be instantaneous, but gradual. 
I will gradually fill out my personal Wikipedia as I study any issue, and also modify 
if any new improved methods / approaches appear. 
The main goal is to use the exocortex ([https://ailev.livejournal.com/1224251.html](https://ailev.livejournal.com/1224251.html)) 
for more convenient and effective personal development. At the moment, the section contains seven main points:

1. base-health
2. physical-health
3. functional
4. thinking-base
5. trans-thinking
6. trans-disciplines
7. applied-disciplines

First, I want to immediately inform you that this structure is not dogmatic and rigid for me. 
It may well change after some time, classifiers appear and disappear all the time 
([https://ailev.livejournal.com/715272.html](https://ailev.livejournal.com/715272.html)). 
This is putting on a mask for more versatile things 
(in my case, personal development) that can never be fully described, 
but I can try ([/posts/2020-05-07-mask](/posts/2020-05-07-mask)).

Why such a structure? There is a certain order here: each subsequent level depends on the previous ones.
To do a project correctly, you need to be competent, and to be competent, 
you need to have a developed transdisciplinary intelligence, and so on. 
In addition, the present sequence is formed on the basis of the idea of ​​the intellect-stack of Anatoly Levenchuk (from 3 to the last) 
([https://ailev.livejournal.com/1507279.html](https://ailev.livejournal.com/1507279.html)), 
as well as on the basis of my personal preferences and views (1 and 2). 
It is possible that I will not completely follow the idea of ​​an intelligence stack and will make my own version, 
as if I would branch off, as if the intelligence stack lies in some 
[repository](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Software_repository), which is controlled by the 
[version control system](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Version_control).

## 1. base-health

This level includes everything related to the basic principles of health.
However, I am not a doctor, or, more precisely, 
I do not have sufficient competence to make 
a state-of-the-art list of what and how you need to monitor so that your health is optimally tuned, 
so you should be skeptical about the information I provide. So, the section includes:

- **Addictions**
    
    The manifestation of addictive behavior reduces a person's ability to work and efficiency.
    You may need to know how to work with dependencies.

- **Eating**

    Everyone knows that if you eat improperly, 
    you will have problems with performance, weight, 
    organ health, and so on, so it is important to eat right - 
    this is just as important a part of life as sleep, as well as communication with people, 
    this cannot be ignored.

- **Rest**

    To never get tired, you need to rest a little.

- **Rhythms**

    The daily routine is very much related to the quality of sleep.
    The principles of a regimen based on maintaining circadian rhythms will be described here.
    Why circadian rhythms? There are many proven health benefits from following correct circadian rhythms.

- **Sleep**

    For myself, I noticed that a lot depends on the quality of my sleep.
    If I do not sleep well, then not only the upper levels, but also the physiological itself, may suffer.
    Therefore, my understanding of how to have high quality sleep will be invested in a special section for sleep.

## 2. Physical health

Principles and methods for maintaining physical health are described here.
I try to develop my body in different aspects, harmoniously. 
It is worth remembering about Liebig's barrel.

- **Agility**

    Something near acrobatics.

- **Balance**

    Vestibular system.

- **Bodily-awareness**

    Be aware and feel every part of the body.

- **Flexibility**

    Develop muscle and joint amplitudes.

- **Posture**

    Good posture is the key to the correct functioning of the organs.

- **Speed**

    I took this skill separately, as I believe that it can be trained separately.

- **Strength**

    One of the main skills that greatly affects health.

## 3. Function-oriented practices

This system level describes the main practices that directly affect performance.
All this is aimed at optimizing your workflow.

- **Attention**

    Sometimes people is faced with a large flow of information and events.
    It is necessary to be able to cope with this flow, not to waste attention.

- **Learning**
    
    To learn something, you need to be able to learn. 
    If a person is not able to organize his educational process,
    then he will not be able to effectively assimilate the competencies being studied.

- **Memory**

    Methods for working with memory and its development.

- **Prioritization**

    It is important to be able to prioritize.
    If it is thoughtless to do only what you like at the moment,
    then there is a high probability of being late in your projects.

- **Procrastinology**

    Let's say we know what is prioritized and what is not. But this is not enough.
    Sometimes we can put off priority things for later. This is called procrastination.

- **Time management**

    Let's say we figured out procrastination. Obviously, this is not enough either. 
    You may still not be able to keep up due to improper time management.

- **Workplace**

    A good place to work will increase your efficiency.

## 4. Thinking base

At this system level, primitive mechanisms and practices are described 
that affect the ability to interact with the outside world:

- **Cognitive biases**

- **Communication**

- **Logical fallacies**

- **Ontologics**

## 5. Trans-thinking

Universal primitives of thinking through other areas.

- **Computational** (fundamentals)

- **Mathematical** (fundamentals)

- **Scientific**

- **Statistical**

- **Systems** (Anatoly Levenchuk)


## 6. Trans-disciplines

Covering disciplines (Anatoly Levenchuk).

- **Systems engineering**

- **Systems management**

- **Systems entrepreneurship**

## 7. Applied disciplines

Here are the areas that are of interest to me and in which I work and develop.
This level contains a set of competencies that define my skills and knowledge in certain areas.

- dance, martial-arts, music, finance

- hardware, software, data science and engineering, machine-intelligence, medicine, information security, computer graphics